Sunbeam Institute Of Technoogy,Pune and Karad
DATABASE TECHNOLOGY
Creating Tables and Indexes :


Note : use “sales” database to solve below queries.
1. Write a command that will enable a user to pull orders grouped
by date out of the Orders table quickly.





2. If the Orders table has already been created, how can you force
the onum field to be unique (assume all current values are
unique)?



3. Create an index that would permit each salesperson to retrieve
his or her orders grouped by date quickly.





4. Let us assume that each salesperson is to have only one
customer of a given rating, and that this is currently the case

.
Enter a command that enforces it.
Views :
Note : use “sales” database to solve below questions

.
1. Create a view that shows all of the customers who have the
highest ratings.


2. Create a view that shows the number of salespeople in each
city
.
3. Create a view that shows the average and total orders for each
salesperson after his or her name. Assume all names are unique.







4. Create a view that shows each salesperson with multiple
customers







5. Create a view of the Salespeople table called Commissions.
This view will include only the snum and comm fields. Through
this view, someone could enter or change commissions, but only
to values between .10 and .20.





6. Grant sunbeam user the right to insert or update the
Customers table while keeping her possible rating values in the
range of 100 to 500.





7. Allow sunbeam user to query the Customers table, but restrict
his access to those customers whose rating is the lowest.



Alter Statements :
Note : use “classwork” database to solve below queries.
1. Write a SQL statement to rename the table EMP to
EMPLOYEE.
2. Write a SQL statement to add a column region to the table
DEPT.
3. Write a SQL statement to add a dummy_ID as the first column
of the table DUMMY.
4. Write a SQL statement to add a column position after grade
to the table SALGRADE.
5. Write a SQL statement change the data type of the column sal
to float in the table EMP.
6. Write a SQL statement to drop the column region from the
table DEPT.Sunbeam Institute Of Technoogy,Pune and Karad
DATABASE TECHNOLOGY
7. Write a SQL statement to change the name of the column job
to job_designation from EMP table , keeping the data type and
size same.
Note : use “sales” database to solve below queries.
8. Write a SQL statement to add a primary key for the columns
SNUM in the SALESPEOPLE table.
9. Write a SQL statement to add a primary key for the columns
CNUM in the CUSTOMERS table.
10. Write a SQL statement to add a foreign key on SNUM
column of CUSTOMERS table referencing to the primary key
SNUM of SALESPEOPLE table.
